# Study proposal on procedural Animation

## description:

Procedural is a term used in the computing area to define any asset generated by a coded process. The simpler term would be "computer generated". Therefore, computer generated game environments would be called "procedural generated environments" or "procedural levels". In the same vein computer generated animations would be called procedural animations

This study and series of posts will cover research and development into procedural animation. More specifically it will cover research on the following topics:

- Inverse Kinematics (IK).
- Inverse Kinematic Rig.
- (Walk cycle)-(character translation) matching.
- parametric walk cycle (Build the walk once and make every character walk differently).

## Justification:

There are some mottos that float around in the world of programming: "**D**on't **R**epeat **Y**ourself" and "**D**on't **I**nvent the **W**heel". These mottos focus primarily on one core concept of software development: Reusability of code. This powerful concept has the advantages of making code maintenance easier (because it is easier to fix or modify a function than it is to correct what could be a function in 32 different lines of code in 5 different archives) and makes the code shorter and more readable (believe me, it is better to call *MakeCake(eggs,flour,suggar)* 5 times than to make 5 cakes by hand in 5 different places) and there fore it takes less time to code.

One of the interesting things that is going on in the game industry right now is to apply the concept of reusability to the animation development pipeline. This is a big deal because historically the entertainment industry Has used two methods to animate anything: Motion Capture and "manufactured" animation. In the beginning each animation would be developed for each individual asset in the game, then methods were developed for animation sharing between similar assets, but these methods created constraints to level design, character design and costs in motion capture sessions. Right now, Ubisoft is delving into the concept of IK rigs. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLjTU0yKS00&t=342s) addresses many of the issues of the current animation technology and what is being done to address this issues by a specific Ubisoft team member.

Developing IK rigs is not only an excellent exercise in understanding the technical aspects of game character animation, but also a way of developing systems that allows developers to utilize and customize animations to suit different characters.

## Deliverables:

As it is hard to foresee what will be achievable in only 3 weeks, the goals here listed are something more in line with a progressive road map where I'll stop when time and resources prove themselves to not be insufficient to achieve the next milestone, but there will be a expected amount of deliverables that can be considered the minimal acceptable amount.

Before starting the deliverables list, it is important to describe the constraints of the project. It will be developed fully on the game Engine Unity 5 and take advantage of the engine's resources, such as its physics engine and its components.

Without further ado, here follows the list of deliverables:

1 Create a human lower body rig (legs and hips).
2 Convert the rig to an IK Rig.
3 Create a basic walk cycle for the IK rig. (This is the minimum number of deliverables)
4 parametrise the walk cycle
5 make 3 variants to the walk cycle.
6 create full body rig.
7 convert the full body rig to a full body IK rig.
8 implement the walk cycle to the rest of the body.
9 parametrise the walk cycle.
10 create 3 variants of the first walk cycle (This would be the ideal)
11 implement prop interaction rules.
12 implement the rig on a character.
13 implement the rig on 2 different characters.
14 implement the same animation on these 2 different characters
15 make the characters interact with the same prop using the same animation.
16 create 2 extra animations that can be used across characters.

### further clarification on deliverables:

The lower body rig will be composed of 11 bones: 4 for each leg (in which 2 will be dedicated to each foot, to allow for toe movement) and 1 for the hip.
The walk cycle animation data will have to be created and stored in way that it can translate to IK movement and be “Rig independent”.
